Documentation restructuring (#37)
T-Systems-MMS/ansible-collection-letsencrypt: docs/README.md

# letsencrypt

> This role issues Let's Encrypt certificates via DNS-01 or HTTP-01 challenge.

Reviewer: this feels a bit redundant with the root README and we should be clear about using `role` or `collection`

Author: I see why you feel like this.
The reason behind this is that a collection can provide multiple roles. As the role is the thing which does all the work and is the only role in this collection i mostly speak in this term in the documentation. Does that sound logical or should we discuss this more in depth?

Reviewer: For now that may be the best approach. 

I could imagine, that we include some other roles for rollout of certificates to different targets in the future. But that is in the future. In this context I was thinking about renaming this `README.md` to `role-letsencrypt.md` (or something like this) and use it directly to explain the role. All general Information should then go to the root `README.md` and we are clear on only including stuff specific to this letsencrypt role here. Hopefully with little text duplication. ;)

Author: Under this point of view i agree with you that we maybe should be more clear about the wording. I also see the rollout of certificates as one objective. 

As for the current situation i cannot quite wrap my head around a change that would satisfy this right off the bet.

> **Please note that you have to use a dns-challenge if you want to issue wildcard certificates.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> For distribution of certificates please implement your own playbooks/roles/tasks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This collection does not distribute certificates - it only creates them. You habe to implement the distribution in your own playbooks roles.
```

## Installation

```bash
ansible-galaxy collection install t_systems_mms.letsencrypt
```

## Providers

The role supports multiple providers for http- and dns-challenges.
Please see the corresponding readme files for specific variables and examples.

> Feel free to contribute with more DNS APIs or more HTTP variants :)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feel free to contribute more DNS or HTTP APIs :)
```

### http-challenge

Following providers for a http-challenge are currently supported.

| Provider                         | Description
|----------------------------------|-------------
| [s3](http-challenge/s3.md)       | uses a aws s3 bucket for validation/hash files
| [local](http-challenge/local.md) | uses a local path at your server/machine for validation/hash files

### dns-challenge

Following providers for a dns-challenge are currently supported.

| Provider                                | Description
|-----------------------------------------|-------------

> | [AutoDNS](dns-challenge/autodns.md)     |

Reviewer 2: How about we add links to the corresponding docs here?

Reviewer: I think this is a good idea, I see no benefit in the table here. Maybe convert this to a list of Links, that keeps it simple

Author: Yes, table can be removed. But i don't quite get what you mean with links? The entry is a link?

Author: Merge the providers into one list.

Reviewer 2: I meant links to the upstream documentation of the providers. But this is fine, too!

| [Azure](dns-challenge/azure.md)         |
| [hetzner](dns-challenge/hetzner.md)     |
| [openstack](dns-challenge/openstack.md) |
| [pebble](dns-challenge/pebble.md)       | used for integration tests in github workflow

## General variables

| Variable                            | Required | Default | Description
|-------------------------------------|----------|---------|------------
| **domain configuration**

> | certificate_name                    | yes      |         | name of the resulting certificate. Most useful for wildcard certificates to not have files named '*.example.com' on the filesystem

Reviewer 2: Please start the description with a Capital Letter.

| zone                                | yes      |         | zone in which the dns records should be created

> | subject_alt_name                    | yes      |         | if you want to use wildcard-certificates use base name again as otherwise DNS txt record creation could fail

Reviewer 2: There is no `base name` I could use again. You mean certificate_name?

Author: This is a relic from when we had base_name as option. Will update

| letsencrypt_do_http_challenge       | yes      | false   | use http challenge
| letsencrypt_do_dns_challenge        | yes      | false   | use dns challenge
| letsencrypt_use_acme_live_directory | no       | false   | choose if production certificates should be created, the staging directory of LE will be used by default
| force_renewal                       | no       |         | Force renewal of certificate before `remaining_days` is reached

## Variables for http-challenge

| Variable                            | Required | Default | Description
|-------------------------------------|----------|---------|------------
| letsencrypt_http_provider           | yes      |         | which http provider should be used: s3, local

## Variables for dns-challenge

| Variable                            | Required | Default | Description
|-------------------------------------|----------|---------|------------
| dns_user                            | yes      |         | username to access the DNS api
| dns_password                        | yes      |         | password to access the DNS api

> | letsencrypt_dns_provider            | yes      |         | which DNS provider should be used: autodns, azure, hetzner, pebble, openstack

Reviewer: I don't like the mixing of description and list of providers, this will get inconsistent very soon.

Author: I removed the listing and added a hint to the provider documentation

## Global role variables

| Variable                                 | Required | Default                              | Description
|------------------------------------------|----------|--------------------------------------|------------

> | letsencrypt_conf_dir                     | no       | $HOME/letsencrypt                    | overwrite letsencrypt_conf_dir if you want to use another directory which is accessible for the user which runs the playbook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| letsencrypt_conf_dir                     | no       | $HOME/letsencrypt                    | overwrite letsencrypt_conf_dir if you want to use another directory which is accessible to the user which runs the playbook
```

| acme_staging_directory                   | no       | acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org | acme directory which will be used for certificate challenge
| acme_live_directory                      | no       | acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org         | acme directory which will be used for certificate challenge
| account_key_path                         | no       | $letsencrypt_conf_dir                | path for account key of letsencrypt
| csr_path                                 | no       | $letsencrypt_conf_dir/certs          | path for csr which is created for challenge
| cert_path                                | no       | $letsencrypt_conf_dir/certs          | path for issued certificate
| intermediate_path                        | no       | $letsencrypt_conf_dir/certs          | path for intermediate chain
| fullchain_path                           | no       | $letsencrypt_conf_dir/certs          | path for full chain file (certificate + intermediate)
| private_key_path                         | no       | $letsencrypt_conf_dir/certs          | path for private key

> | remaining_days                           | no       | 30                                   | min days remaining before certificate will be renewed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| remaining_days                           | no       | 30                                   | days remaining before certificate will be renewed
```

| convert_cert_to                          | no       |                                      | format to convert the certificate to: `pfx`

> | validate_certs (bool)                    | no       |                                      | Gets used during integration tests with pebble server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| validate_certs (bool)                    | no       |                                      | Only used in integration tests with pebble server
```

> | validate_certs (bool)                    | no       |                                      | Gets used during integration tests with pebble server

Reviewer: Why mention that this varible is a bool? We don't mention the datatype of all other variables.

Author: Removed this mention. Thought it would make sense here as most of the other vars are no bools or at least have defaults which tell if they are bools or not.
